Another weakness that plagues the conventional security mechanisms is that they heavily rely on the capability of their human user, which could be a cybersecurity professional or a business user. This reliance on the user makes the effectiveness of the security tools vulnerable to the weaknesses of their user and therefore, if the user is unable to efficiently utilize the security measure in time of need, the security infrastructure renders itself useless in preventing or stopping an attack. Technologies like machine learning and deep learning, which are part of Artificial Intelligence, help prevent this substantial dependence on human counterpart by providing the security mechanisms that can analyze data to learn and evolve on their own. Therefore, AI enables the creation of automated systems that are highly effective and efficient in identifying and deterring malicious activities and attacks. (Wiafe et al., 2020)
Benefits of using AI in Cybersecurity
	AI in Intrusion Detection and Prevention. AI introduces several benefits when implemented as an integral part of the security infrastructure. One of the primary areas of cybersecurity where AI has been of the greatest significance is the intrusion detection and prevention systems (IDPS). Application of AI in IDPS has yielded exceptional improvements in lowering the false alarms caused by IDPS (Wiafe et al., 2020). IDPS systems created using AI not only exhibits lower computational overhead, but they also help minimize the workload on cybersecurity personnel and improve overall performance and accuracy of the IDPS (Frank, 1994). 
AI against DoS and DDoS attacks. DoS or Denial of Service attacks are a major security issue that are very common occurrence and often very effective in disrupting the ability of victim to operate efficiently. DoS or a version of DoS known as Distributed Denial of Service attacks (DDoS) pose a major threat for the critical infrastructure of all technology firms and government units, because such attacks have high capability to use millions of compromised devices, most of which are unsecure vulnerable IoT (Internet of Things) devices, to carry out a DDoS attack on victim’s network. Prevention of such attacks is a complex task, especially with the increasing sophistication with which such attacks are carried out, making it extremely difficult for traditional cybersecurity tools and measures to prevent or defeat such attacks. However, AI has proven to be highly effective in detection of DoS attacks by applying automated analysis of data, like incoming traffic on a network, and AI algorithms and solutions. One example of this is provided by a study that examined the application of AI technologies in intrusion detection and found that AI based decision trees were able to achieve a 99 percent accuracy rate in detection of DoS launched using IoT devices (Doshi et al., 2018). Another study manifested the results of detecting DoS attacks using Deep Learning, another AI technology, to be an astounding 95.65 percent accurate (Niyaz, 2017). 
AI for Falsified Information Detection. AI technologies and tools are not only highly effective in detecting cyberattacks but are also equally efficacious in analysing vast amounts of data and generating useful and actionable insights. One application of this is the use of AI methods in identification of falsified information for malicious or non-malicious intent, as well as recognition of sophisticated spam attacks which otherwise would be extremely hard to detect solely by a human cybersecurity professional. Several studies have proven the exemplary performance of AI techniques in this regard and one such research displayed how certain AI methodologies and tools could be used for early detection of fake news on social media platforms with up to 92 percent accuracy (Liu & Wu, 2020). 
AI for Zero-Day Phishing Detection. One of the hardest and most complicated tasks in securing the systems and users is the detection and prevention of phishing attacks. Zero-day phishing attacks are a category of phishing attacks that utilize new and unknown scam methods and tools that are not yet identifiable and recognizable by conventional phishing detection and prevention systems, which often rely on a database of known phishing scams. In such scenarios, the most effective approach would be to use advance artificial intelligence algorithms, tools and systems, geared towards detection and prevention of zero-day phishing attacks. The effectiveness of an AI based solution for phishing detection has also been demonstrated by a study which found the detection accuracy of zero-day phishing to be an astonishing 98.86 percent, while it also discovered that AI can be used to “detect phishing pages in internet banking with [an] accuracy of 99.14%” (Moghimi & Varjani, 2016).
